# Dog Breeds Flutter App

This is a simple Flutter application that demonstrates the use of a public API to fetch and display a list of dog breeds. When a user taps on a specific breed, a small description of the breed is shown.

## Features

- Fetches a list of dog breeds from a public API.
- Displays the list of dog breeds in a clean and simple UI.
- Shows a brief description of a breed when tapped.

## Getting Started

This project is a starting point for a Flutter application.

A few resources to get you started if this is your first Flutter project:

- [Lab: Write your first Flutter app](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/codelab)
- [Cookbook: Useful Flutter samples](https://docs.flutter.dev/cookbook)

For help getting started with Flutter development, view the
[online documentation](https://docs.flutter.dev/), which offers tutorials,
samples, guidance on mobile development, and a full API reference.


### Prerequisites

- Flutter SDK: [Installation Guide](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install)
- A code editor (IDX, VS Code, Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition, etc.)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://git.naspersclassifieds.com/shared-services/payment-solutions/advertising/playground/flutterdemo.git
    cd flutterdemo
    ```

2. Get the required dependencies:
    ```sh
    flutter pub get
    ```

3. Run the app:
    ```sh
    flutter run
    ```

## Usage

- Launch the app on your device/emulator.
- Browse the list of dog breeds.
- Tap on a breed to see a brief description.

## API

This app uses a public API to fetch the list of dog breeds and their descriptions. The API used is:

- [Dog API by kinduff](https://dogapi.dog/)

## Code Overview

### Folder Structure

```
dog-breeds-flutter-app/
|- lib/
  |- main.dart
  |- core/
     |- app_widget.dart
  |- data/
     |- models/
         |- dogs_breeds_model.dart
         |- dogs_breeds_model.g.dart (autogenerated)
     |- repositories/
         |- dogs_breeds_repository_impl.dart
     |- sources/
         |- dogs_breeds_api.dart
         |- dogs_breeds_data_source.dart
  |- domain/
     |- entities/
         |- dogs_breeds_entity.dart
     |- repositories/
         |- dogs_breeds_repository.dart
     |- usecases/
         |- get_dogs_breeds_usecase.dart
  |- presentation/
     |- pages/
         |- home_page.dart
     |- dogs_breeds_presenter.dart
```

### main.dart

The entry point of the application. It sets up the main app structure and navigation.

### data/models/dogs_breeds_model.dart

Defines the data model for a dog breed in the data layer. The model corresponds to the one from the data source (API)

### data/repositories/dogs_breeds_repository_impl.dart

Implementation for dogs breeds repository. Fetch the data from the selected data source

### data/sources/dogs_breeds_api.dart

Remote data source for dogs breeds. Manages the actual request to the API

### data/sources/dogs_breeds_data_source.dart

Local data source for dogs breeds. Hardcoded local data source

### domain/entities/dogs_breeds_entity.dart

Defines the data model for a dog breed in the domain layer. Also contains parser methods from data layer to domain layer.

### domain/repositories/dogs_breeds_repository.dart

Defines the contract for the repository in the data layer.

### domain/usecases/get_dogs_breeds_usecase.dart

Encapsulates specific business logic and actions for fetching dogs breeds

### presentation/pages/home_page.dart

This screen displays the list of dog breeds fetched from the API.

### presentation/dogs_breeds_presenter.dart

Manages async flow in view

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Acknowledgements

- [Dog API by kinduff](https://dogapi.dog/) for providing the data used in this app.

---

Feel free to reach out if you have any questions or need further assistance.

---